# jump-start

A shortcut to my favorite code. Want your own? Check out
[kevinschaul/jump-start-template](https://github.com/kevinschaul/jump-start-template).

`jump-start` is a lightweight system to organize that code that
you keep coming back to. It's a structured GitHub repository,
a CLI tool, and a web frontend.

A **starter** is a directory of code that you like -- whether
it’s a single script or an entire app. Each starter lives in a
**group** directory. Organize similar code for easier
navigation.

When you want to use your favorite code, locate that starter
either in this README.md, in your gallery website, or by searching
with the CLI. Copy the command, and run it in your terminal.
Your starter code is now in your project.

## The `jump-start` CLI

Read the full documentation at [jump-start-tools](https://github.com/kevinschaul/jump-start/).

```bash
# Install the jump-start CLI
cargo install jump-start

# Use remote starter from a GitHub repository
jump-start use @kevinschaul/react-d3/LineChart

# Set up config to use local starters
jump-start config

# Use a local starter
jump-start use frontend/react-app

# Search local starters
jump-start find react
```

## Starters


<!-- NOTE: The starters section of this readme is auto-generated by .github/workflows/deploy.yml -->

Jump to group:
- [geo](#geo)
- [github-actions](#github-actions)
- [make](#make)
- [node](#node)
- [project-structure](#project-structure)
- [python](#python)
- [r](#r)
- [react](#react)
- [react-d3](#react-d3)

---

### geo

geo/**counties.mk**

```
jump-start use @kevinschaul/geo/counties.mk
```

A Makefile that creates a counties geojson file using my [ideal project structure](). Usage:

```make
# Makefile
include counties.mk

all: data/build/counties.geojson
```

---
geo/**pmtiles-counties**

```
jump-start use @kevinschaul/geo/pmtiles-counties
```

A demo Makefile for creating map tiles at the county level

---
### github-actions

github-actions/**node-release-please**

```
jump-start use @kevinschaul/github-actions/node-release-please
```

GitHub action for automating release PRs and npm releases with [release-please](https://github.com/googleapis/release-please-action)

---
### make

make/**makefile-task-runner**

```
jump-start use @kevinschaul/make/makefile-task-runner
```

Makefile starter with a self-documenting "make help" command

---
### node

node/**cli**

```
jump-start use @kevinschaul/node/cli
```

A node/ts CLI with argument parser, subcommands and tests.

Develop the command with:

```
npm install
npm run dev
```

Test with:

```
npm test
```

---
node/**timestamp_if_changed**

```
jump-start use @kevinschaul/node/timestamp_if_changed
```

A script to help organize timestamped versions of a file. Useful when you download a file every so often but only want to save it if its contents have changed.

Given a file, make a copy of LATEST_FILE with the current timestamp appended to the filename if the file is different from the previous version. The previous version is the file in the directory of LATEST_FILE with the same prefix as LATEST_FILE that has the most recent timestamp in its filename.

e.g. "evacuations-latest.geojson" would become "evacuations-2025-01-08T12:03:01.geojson"

Usage: node timestamp_if_changed.js LATEST_FILE

---
node/**update_datawrapper_map**

```
jump-start use @kevinschaul/node/update_datawrapper_map
```

A script to update a Datawrapper map's marker with a geojson file

Downloads the current map info, replaces the specified marker with a geojson file, and re-uploads the map info.

Usage: node update_datawrapper_map.js CHART_ID MARKER_TO_REPLACE PATH_TO_GEOJSON

---
### project-structure

project-structure/**analysis**

```
jump-start use @kevinschaul/project-structure/analysis
```

Builds out the analysis portion of my ideal project structure. The structure looks like this:

```
xx_project_slug
|-- analysis
|   |-- .gitignore
|   |-- analysis.Rproj         r studio project
|   |-- Makefile               can include other makefiles
|   |-- counties.mk            @kevinschaul/jump-start/geo/counties.mk
|   |-- data
|   |   |-- raw                raw files needed to generate build/clean
|   |   |-- build              generated files; gitignored
|   |   `-- clean              outputs for project; gitignored
|   |-- scripts
|   |-- observablehq.config.js observable framework config
|   `-- observable             observable framework app
|       |-- data -> ../data    symlink
|       `-- index.md
`...                           rest of project goes here
```

---
### python

python/**project**

```
jump-start use @kevinschaul/python/project
```

A basic python project, using uv

---
python/**pytest-evals-helpers**

```
jump-start use @kevinschaul/python/pytest-evals-helpers
```

Given a bag of eval_results, generate metrics per prompt template, print
them out and optionally save them to a file.

For use with [pytest-evals](https://github.com/AlmogBaku/pytest-evals)

```
===== Metrics by Prompt Template =====
Template ID  Sample Size  Accuracy   Precision  Recall     F1        
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Template 1   200          84.00%     81.48%     88.00%     84.62%    
Template 2   200          83.50%     79.13%     91.00%     84.65%    
Template 3   200          81.00%     86.90%     73.00%     79.35%    
```

---
python/**script**

```
jump-start use @kevinschaul/python/script
```

A python script with argparse

---
### r

r/**round**

```
jump-start use @kevinschaul/r/round
```

Round with common behavior of rounding halves up

---
### react

react/**Arrow**

```
jump-start use @kevinschaul/react/Arrow
```

A React component that draws a nice arrow

---
react/**useMediaQuery**

```
jump-start use @kevinschaul/react/useMediaQuery
```

Makes CSS media queries available in JS. Use like:

```
const isSkinny = useMediaQuery('(max-width: 600px)')
```

---
react/**useViewportHeightUnits**

```
jump-start use @kevinschaul/react/useViewportHeightUnits
```

Makes the newer CSS height units available in JS, like `lvh` and `svh`
https://css-tricks.com/the-large-small-and-dynamic-viewports/

Implementation based on
https://github.com/joppuyo/large-small-dynamic-viewport-units-polyfill

---
### react-d3

react-d3/**Chart**

```
jump-start use @kevinschaul/react-d3/Chart
```

An empty React component for writing a responsive D3 chart.

* Adds size prop
* Sets up margin convention

---
react-d3/**LineChart**

```
jump-start use @kevinschaul/react-d3/LineChart
```

A React component for writing a responsive D3 line chart.

---

## Adding a starter

Why not use jump-start to add a starter? Run the following command, replacing
STARTER_GROUP with a group name (e.g. `react`), and STARTER_NAME with a
starter name (e.g. `BarChart`).

```
jump-start use @kevinschaul/jump-start-template/example/starter STARTER_GROUP/STARTER_NAME
```

Then, add your code, and edit the generated `jump-start.yaml` file to your liking.

### `jump-start.yaml`

Each starter must contain this file, which defines a few items used by the
gallery.

Some examples:

- [kevinschaul react-d3/LineChart](https://github.com/kevinschaul/jump-start/blob/main/react-d3/LineChart/jump-start.yaml)
- [kevinschaul r/data-analysis](https://github.com/kevinschaul/jump-start/blob/main/r/data-analysis/jump-start.yaml)

**`description`**: Anything you want to write about this starter. It could be
the code’s features, any additional installation instructions, whatever. This
appears in the `## Starters` section of the README.md, and in the web gallery.

**`defaultDir`**: Where the files generated by this starter will be placed by
default. For example, if you know that your React components live in
`components/elements/`, set the `defaultDir` to that. The jump-start command
shown in the README.md and gallery will place the files into this directory.

**`mainFile`** (optional): The file shown initially in the gallery's "Starter files
section.

**`preview`** (optional): Configuration that gets passed down to the gallery's
"Preview" section. The previews render via
[Sandpack](https://sandpack.codesandbox.io/docs/getting-started/usage), so this
configuration mimics Sandpack's. Currently only supports React. Your starter
must include the file `Preview.js`, which default exports a React component.

**`preview.template`** (optional, e.g. "react"): The template used by Sandpack.
I've only used "react" but others may work too.

**`preview.dependencies`** (optional, e.g. `d3: "5"`): An object containing
dependencies for Sandpack to use for the preview. Think of it as the
`package.json` file for the preview. Anything your starter needs should be
listed here.

## Customizing gallery-wide settings with `.env`

`jump-start` uses `.env` for a few settings:

- `GITHUB_USERNAME`: GitHub usename used in commands and links. This is set by
  default in the deploy GitHub action.
- `GITHUB_REPO`: GitHub repo name used in commands and links. This is set by
  default in the deploy GitHub action.

## Running the gallery locally

To run the gallery locally, using the starters in this repo as its data:

```
jump-start storybook dev --instance-path .
```

Open [localhost:6006](localhost:6006) in a browser.

## Deploying the gallery to Github Pages

This repo includes a [deploy workflow](.github/workflows/deploy.yml) that
deploys your jump start gallery to Github pages.
